# Firewall Malware

## Objectives
- After completing this lab, you should be able to:

1. Update a `network firewall`
2. Create a `firewall rules group`
3. Verify and test that `access to malicious sites is blocked`

## Malware Protection Using an AWS Network Firewall
## Lab overview
- Malware, short for malicious software, refers to any intrusive software developed by cybercriminals (often called hackers) to steal data and damage or destroy computers and computer systems. Examples of common malware include viruses, worms, Trojan horses, spyware, adware, and ransomware.

Firewalls are like physical security walls situated between an organization's internal network and any external public networks such as the internet. The firewall protects an internal network from access by unauthorized users on an external network.

Users need access to the internet for business reasons, but they can inadvertently download malware, which can impact network and data security.

Malware threats can be present, and organizations can use various techniques and services to mitigate these threats (for example, firewalls, antivirus software, and user control best practice). This lab focuses on countermeasure techniques using a firewall.

Scenario
AnyCompany has hired you as a new security engineer, and the company has tasked you with hardening the company’s security perimeter. There have been reports of users accidentally downloading malware after accessing specific websites. The IT team for AnyCompany has provided you with the URLs of the sites hosting the malware. It is your job to find a solution to mitigate access to these malicious actor files.