# Monitor an EC2 Instance
## Objectives
- After completing this lab, you should be able to:

1. Create an Amazon SNS notification
2. Configure a CloudWatch alarm
3. Stress test an EC2 instance
4. Confirm that an Amazon SNS email was sent
5. Create a CloudWatch dashboard

## Lab overview
- Logging and monitoring are techniques implemented to achieve a common goal. They work together to help ensure that a system's performance baselines and security guidelines are always met. 
- Logging refers to recording and storing data events as log files. Logs contain low-level details that can give you visibility into how your application or system performs under certain circumstances. From a security standpoint, logging helps security administrators identify red flags that are easily overlooked in their system.
- Monitoring is the process of analyzing and collecting data to help ensure optimal performance. Monitoring helps detect unauthorized access and helps align your services' usage with organizational security.
- In this lab, you create an Amazon CloudWatch alarm that initiates when the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance exceeds a specific central processing unit (CPU) utilization threshold. You create a subscription using Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) that sends an email to you if this alarm is goes off. You log in to the EC2 instance and run a stress test command that causes the CPU utilization of the EC2 instance to reach 100 percent.
- This test simulates a malicious actor gaining control of the EC2 instance and spiking the CPU. CPU spiking has various possible causes, one of which is malware.

## Summary of task 1
- In this task, you created an SNS topic and then created a subscription for the topic by using an email address. This topic is now able to send alerts to the email address that you associated with the Amazon SNS subscription.

- `CloudWatch` is a monitoring and observability service built for DevOps engineers, developers, site reliability engineers (SREs), IT managers, and product owners. 
- `CloudWatch` provides you with data and actionable insights to monitor your applications, respond to system-wide performance changes, and optimize resource utilization. 
- `CloudWatch` collects monitoring and operational data in the form of logs, metrics, and events. You get a unified view of operational health and gain visibility of your AWS resources, applications, and services running on AWS and on premises.

## Summary of task 2
- In this task, you viewed some Amazon EC2 metrics within CloudWatch. You then created a CloudWatch alarm that initiates an In alarm state when the CPU utilization threshold exceeds 60 percent. 

## Summary of task 3
- In this task, you ran a command to load the EC2 instance to 100 percent for 400 seconds. This increase in CPU utilization activated the alarm to go into the In alarm state, and you confirmed the spike in the CPU utilization by viewing the CloudWatch graph. You also received a email notification alerting you of the In alarm state.
